# myorder-cart-widget-middleware
This middleware service is required for secure communication with isklad services.

## Installation
```shell
composer install isklad/myorder-cart-widget-middleware
```

## Instantiation
To instantiate the middleware, you have to provide it with required env parameters.
Either directly pass arguments to the constructor, or provide an ini file with the arguments.

Direct example: 
```php
$app = new \Isklad\MyorderCartWidgetMiddleware\IskladApp(
    new \Isklad\MyorderCartWidgetMiddleware\IskladEnv(
        '01921da3-83d2-7edd-9c38-ffd8f9e9db33',
        'yourSecretPass',
        123,
        'https://eshop-one-test.isklad.eu/iskladApi.php'
        __DIR__ . '/data',
    )
);
```

Ini example: 
```php
$app = new IskladApp(
    IskladEnv::fromIniFile(__DIR__ . '/../env.ini')
);
```
See example ini file here: https://github.com/isklad/eshop-one/blob/main/env.dist.ini
Please make sure the ini file is outside the public folder of your website, since it contains your clientSecret (password), or use the direct option.

## API endpoint
You have to create an API endpoint somewhere on your website.

I.E: create a `iskladApi.php` file in the public directory on your website and call `$app->iskladApiController();` in it.
Don't forget to update the link to your iskladApi in your env.ini file (key: middlewareUrl).
Example: https://github.com/isklad/eshop-one/blob/main/public/iskladApi.php

## What does it do
### Manage client auth token
If the JWT auth token is expired, expires in few hours or empty, it fetches a new one via API from isklad-auth server, using the clientId and clientSecret.
This JWT is then used for authorizing requests to isklad services like isklad-myorder.
The JWT token is saved/cached in a PHP file on the filesystem.

### Attach Authorization header to requests
Widget must fetch data like countries, delivery options, users' addresses etc. from isklad-myorder service. 
To be able to do that, the request must be made with valid JWT.
JWT cannot be exposed to public, because an attacker could use it to impersonate client requests.
Therefore, the widget makes request to the middleware, which then makes the request to the myorder service with JWT attached and passes the response. 
This way JWT is always kept secret.

### Manage CSRF token
To ensure only the widget communicates with the middleware, and not an attacker, all requests from widget to the middleware must have valid CSRF token attached.
CSRF token is generated by the middleware and is passed to the widget ([see widget configuration options](https://github.com/isklad/eshop-one?tab=readme-ov-file#configuration-options)).
The CSRF token is saved to a session.

### Provide API for iSklad services (egon, myorder, auth etc..)
See section [API endpoint](#api-endpoint)

### Device-id callback handler
To be able to list and save users' addresses, we must identify the session on the isklad-auth server.
Since the 3rd party cookies blocking policy is now a standard in browsers, we must do a round-trip to isklad-auth service and back.
The isklad-auth will redirect back to the client with the device-id in a GET parameter.
The device-id is then stored to session and passed to the widget. 

### Device identification request
If there is no device-id saved in session, the middleware will create a request for identification of the device via API to isklad-auth server, which will respond with a one-time device-identity-request-id.
The request contains the callback URL where the auth-server will redirect to with the correct device-id and device-identity-request-id.
When clicked upon the widget for the first time, it will open a popup window, which will make the round-trip to isklad-auth server with device-identity-request-id, and receive the device-id in GET parameter (see [Device-id callback handler](#device-id-callback-handler)).

### Provide additional vars from ini
You may store more than just the vars necessary to instantiate the app in your ini file and then access them as a key=>value array.
Example:

ini: 
```ini
googleApiKey=yourGoogleApiKey
```
php:
```php
$app->env()->getIni()['googleApiKey']
```

### Signing data with private key
Sign data with private key that can be verified by 3rd party services via public key.
Example:

```php
$app->getSigned(['foo' => 'bar'])
```

If you do not yet have a private/public key pair, you may generate them for example with this script:
```shell
# Generate and encrypt the private key with a password
openssl genrsa -aes256 -out private.pem 4096

# Extract the public key from the generated private key
openssl rsa -in private.pem -pubout -out public.pem

```

Don't forget to save the new base64 encoded public key (`cat public.pem | base64`) Egon-Fastcheckout settings: https://egon.isklad.com/client.

## Customization
You may want to customize the following items in your ini file:

`keyDeviceId` - this is the key under which the device-id will be stored in session, and also the name of the GET parameter in the callback from device identification (see [Device-id callback handler](#device-id-callback-handler)).

`keyDeviceIdentityRequestId` - this is the key under which the device-identity-request-id will be stored in session, and also the name of the GET parameter in the callback from device identification.

`keyCsrfToken` - this is the key under which the device-id will be stored in session.

## Configuration in INI file
### Required
Widget will not work or will not work fully without these parameters:

`clientId` - your isklad client id.  
`clientSecret` - your isklad client secret.  
`eshopId` - your isklad e-shop id.  
`middlewareUrl` - the URL of the middleware API.  
`dataDir` - writable directory where the JWT token will be stored.  
`googleApiKey` - your google API key to use with Google Maps API (address lookup, map..).

### Required for signing data (Fastcheckout cart):
`privateKey` - your private key to sign JWT token.  
`privateKeyPassphrase` - your private key passphrase.  
`tokenExpireInterval` - (optional) how long the JWT token will be valid for, defaults to `PT8H`.

### Optional
If set, will override defaults. Mostly for development purposes.

#### Session keys
`keyDeviceId` - (optional) if set, will override the key under which the device-id will be stored in session.  
`keyDeviceIdentityRequestId` - (optional) if set, will override the key under which the device-identity-request-id will be stored in session.  
`keyCsrfToken` - (optional) if set, will override the key under which the CSRF token will be stored in session.  

#### Domain overrides
`widgetDomain` - (optional) if set, will override the domain where the widget is hosted.  
`myorderDomain` - (optional) if set, will override the domain where MyOrder is hosted.  
`egonDomain` - (optional) if set, will override the domain where Egon service is hosted.  
`authDomain` - (optional) if set, will override the domain where Auth service is hosted.

#### Development
`displayErrors` - (optional, do not use in production) if set to true, middleware will display PHP errors.  
`disabledCsrfTokenVerification` - (optional, do not use in production) if set to true, middleware will not verify CSRF token.  
`disabledPopupClose` - (optional, do not use in production) if set to true, middleware will not close popup window used for device identification.  
